# forest-cover-classification
A program to build a deep learning model to predict the forest cover type from different cartographic variables.

My final classification model, which uses sparse categorical cross-entropy as its loss function and the optimizer Adam, has a test accuracy of ~84%. I did try multiple models during this project: a regression model, a classification model using categorical cross entropy as it’s loss function, and a classification model using categorical cross entropy as its loss function. My first model, a regression model, is a result of me misinterpreting the data. I had seen that some of the raw data features had decimal places, and my mind focused on that instead of analyzing the actual labels (the value im predicting with my model)  of the dataset. A strangely low accuracy score, however (~20%), had me going back through my program to see what I did wrong, ending up with me looking back at my original dataset. I quickly realized that the labels in the dataset were only numbers one through seven. Since regression models are used to predict continuous values, they should not be used on data with discrete labels; therefore, a classification model would perform better. When deciding between loss functions, I had to do some research using the Keras documentation. For categorical cross-entropy, the docs say, “Use this crossentropy loss function when there are two or more label classes. We expect labels to be provided in a one_hot representation.”. For sparse categorical cross-entropy, the docs say, “Use this crossentropy loss function when there are two or more label classes. We expect labels to be provided as integers.” So, while I think either loss function would work perfectly fine, not only was I able to uncover a major error in my code using sparse categorical cross-entropy, but it also saved me some space, which is heavily appreciated when using an older device, hopefully making my model more widely useable.

P.S. → This is my first time writing a report like this, so any comments or ideas for improvement on my model OR my report are welcome!
